------------------------------------------------------------------
This is the RAW Incubator Board report

DO NOT USE THIS FOR REPORTS - it's just an experiment so far.

Once/if we decide to use this mechanism, podlings will input their
reports here. A script reformats it (see the build* scripts) and
injects it in a <pre> section at 
http://incubator.apache.org/report.html. The idea is that report
authors can check that processed variant and tweak their report
if anything was "eaten" by the processing.

To test this, make a change to this file and check the above
URL which should be updated within 2-3 minutes.
---- TODO remove the above section in the preprocessor script? ---

Incubator PMC report for May 2019

The Apache Incubator is the entry path into the ASF for projects and
codebases wishing to become part of the Foundation's efforts.

There are presently 50 podlings incubating. During the month of April, podlings executed 10 distinct releases. We added two new IPMC members and no IPMC members retired.

We have no new podlings this month. Three projects graduated last month 
namely PLC4X, SkyWalking and Netbeans and several other podlings are 
heading towards graduation in the next few months.

One of the podlings that failed to report last month, Milagro failed to
report again this month and the IPMC will discuss what to do. This is the 
not first time this project has failed to report and it may not have a
working PPMC.

Two podlings Milagro and Toree have not submitted reports and will be asked
to report next month.

There were two IP clearances.

The new Podling clutch page is working well and documentation has been  created clearly explains what information is collected from where.

The incubator is providing a new service to podlings to provide feedback on
releases. So far no podlings have taken up this service. 

Mentors are being actively encouraged to vote on their podling releases so
that the VOTEs show up on the general@ list with 3 +1 IPMC votes. While a 
couple of podlings have managed to do this, most still need extra votes by 
IPMC members outside their projects. The IPMC will need to look further
into this.

In a couple of cases, podlings canceled vote too early and were encouraged
to continue voting.

Incubator wiki is being deprecated, and it's been migrated to confluence. 
Some of the pages were missed in the transfer and infra are looking into 
why.

The new wiki space has been reorganised and the pages categorised for easier
navigation. A few minor issues have been encountered e.g. confluence 
ignoring formatting but have been addressed. A few people have had permission
issues and because of this move mentor sign-off is a little lower than normal. 

The reorganisation and cleanup of incubator web pages started last month 
continues on.

* Community

New IPMC members:
  - Arpit Agarwal
  - Kevin Ratnasekera 

People who left the IPMC:
  None

* New Podlings
  None

* Podlings that failed to report, expected next month
  - Milagro
  - Toree

* Graduations
  - Netbeans
  - PLC4X
  - SkyWalking

The board has motions for the following:
  - Dubbo

* Releases

The following releases entered distribution during the month of
April:
 - DLab 2.1
 - Druid 0.14.0
 - Dubbo Spring Boot 2.7.1
 - Livy 0.6.0
 - NetBeans 11.0 
 - OpenWhisk Client JS 3.19.0
 - OpenWhisk Composer 0.11.0 
 - Ratis 0.3.0 
 - ShardingSphere 4.0.0
 - Singa 2.0.0

* IP Clearance
 - Sling Journal-based Content Distribution
 - IP clearance for SkyWalking RocketBot UI

* Legal / Trademarks
  None

* Infrastructure
  None, although it still unknown if infrastructure will allow
  distribution of artefacts with IP or other serious issues.

* Miscellaneous
  - Discussion of use of stack overflow

|----------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
brpc
DataSketches
Doris
ECharts
Edgent
Heron
MXNet
PageSpeed
Pinot
Ratis
S2Graph
SDAP
Tamaya
Training
Tuweni
TVM

|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

brpc

brpc is an industrial-grade RPC framework for building reliable and 
high-performance services.

brpc has been incubating since 2018-11-13.

Three most important issues to address in the move towards graduation:
  1. We begin to prepare an apache release, including prepare for unified  License/Copyright, clean dependencies.
  2. We depend on npsr’ time, it is MPL/LGPL license, we need to find  another lib for it.

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be aware 
of?

  No

How has the community developed since the last report?

  Added two potential committers, they are huwenwei and wangweibing ,
  they will participate in the work of first apache release , and take some 
  tasks already.  .

How has the project developed since the last report?

  There are many bugfix into the trunk.

How would you assess the podling's maturity?

  Still in early stage

Please feel free to add your own commentary.

  [ ] Initial setup
  [X] Working towards first release
  [X] Community building
  [ ] Nearing graduation
  [ ] Other:

Date of last release:

  Still working on the first release 

When were the last committers or PPMC members elected?

  2019/2. Jerrytan became a new member of PPMC

Have your mentors been helpful and responsive or are things falling through the cracks? In the latter case, please list any open issues that need to be addressed.

Signed-off-by:

  [X](brpc) Kevin A. McGrail
     Comments: Improving steadily.
  [ ](brpc) Jean-Baptiste Onofré
     Comments:
  [X](brpc) Von Gosling
     Comments:

IPMC/Shepherd notes:
  Von Gosling: brpc community should pay more warm in the community building 
  except the first release.
 

--------------------
DataSketches

DataSketches is an open source, high-performance library of stochastic streaming algorithms commonly called "sketches" in the data sciences. Sketches are small, stateful programs that process massive data as a stream and can provide approximate answers, with mathematical guarantees, to computationally difficult queries orders-of-magnitude faster than traditional, exact  methods.

DataSketches has been incubating since 2019-03-30.

Three most important unfinished issues to address before graduating:

  1. Finish IP Assignments
  2. Code Migration
  3. Perform a Release

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be
aware of?

  No

How has the community developed since the last report?

  We have the key committers signed up. We are all learning how
  to navigate in the Apache environment and how to find things.

How has the project developed since the last report?

  This is our first report.

How would you assess the podling's maturity?
Please feel free to add your own commentary.

  [X] Initial setup
  [ ] Working towards first release
  [ ] Community building
  [ ] Nearing graduation
  [ ] Other:

Date of last release:

  Our DataSketches.GitHub.io site is quite active as we are 
  very active with new code and releases from this site.
  For example, our latest release of sketches-core was yesterday,
  25 April 2019.  

  We are a long way from being able to release from the migrated
  Apache code base as it doesn't yet exist.

  XXXX-XX-XX

When were the last committers or PPMC members elected?

  We have just signed up are initial list of committers.

Have your mentors been helpful and responsive or are things falling
through the cracks? In the latter case, please list any open issues
that need to be addressed.

  Kenneth Knowles has been extremely helpful! Thank you!

Signed-off-by:

  [X](datasketches) Liang Chen
  Comments:
  [X](datasketches) Kenneth Knowles
  Comments: Initial set up has been a bit slow; that's on me
  [X](datasketches) Furkan Kamaci
  Comments:

IPMC/Shepherd notes:

--------------------
Doris

Doris is a MPP-based interactive SQL data warehousing for reporting and
analysis.

Doris has been incubating since 2018-07-18.

Three most important unfinished issues to address before graduating:

  1. Hold a Meetup to communicate with developers and users.
  2. Prepare for the second Apache Release.
  3. Grow the community encouraging patches and recognizing sustained 
  contributions by adding as Committers and PPMC members.

Any issues that the Incubator PMC (IPMC) or ASF Board wish/need to be
aware of?

  None.

How has the community developed since the last report?

  There are 29 contributors now.

How has the project developed since the last report?

  Excluding merges, 12 authors have pushed 75 commits to master and 233 
  commits to all branches. 
  On master, 253 files have changed and there have been 14,050 additions and 
  3,027 deletions.

How would you assess the podling's maturity?
Please feel free to add your own commentary.

  [ ] Initial setup
  [X] Working towards first release
  [X] Community building
  [ ] Nearing graduation
  [ ] Other:

Date of last release:

  2019-02-21

When were the last committers or PPMC members elected?

  N/A.

Have your mentors been helpful and responsive or are things falling
through the cracks? In the latter case, please list any open issues
that need to be addressed.

  Yes, our mentors have been helpful and responsive.

Signed-off-by:

  [X](doris) Dave Fisher
  Comments: Will need to start discussions about possible new committers.
  [ ](doris) Willem Ning Jiang
  Comments:
  [ ](doris) Shao Feng Shi
  Comments:

IPMC/Shepherd notes:

--------------------